Olympians fight.
We betray. We backstab.
See, years before I was born,
my grandpa, Kronos,
ate my aunts and uncles.
My dad knows
he's not getting this bolt back
with quests or goose chases.
So we're gonna have a war.
They were talking about
what comes next.
Like getting Zeus and Poseidon to fight
was only the beginning
and they're planning something bigger
on top of it.
We find Hermes.
We get him to hook us up
with a ride to Los Angeles
and a plan to get into the Underworld.
- We need your help to--
- I know what you need my help for.
There is a way into the Underworld.
A secret way.
Each will provide one of you
safe passage back from the Underworld.
There are four of them.
Save the world...
and then go save your mother.
Welcome, weary traveler!
Come on in and take a load off.
These beds will change your...
life.
Well...
hello there.
Missing our mommy, are we?
I know who you are.
You’re Procrustes.
Son of Poseidon,
and murderer of travelers.
Crusty, please.
And you...
you’ve got Dad’s eyes.
Take a load off. Relax for a minute.
The beds are a trap.
That’s how you do it.
How you murder your guests.
I do?
I know there’s a secret passage
to the Underworld here.
I know you were left here to guard it.
But I need you to let me through.
Please?
In addition
to being incredibly comfortable,
these beds are great
for your self-confidence.
- I’m really not interested--
- They show you how to fit.
Fitting’s not easy
for guys like us, am I right?
Our parents make it so hard.
Stretching us and twisting us
and hacking off pieces
to make us seem more like them.
Anywho...
these beds take all that away.
With these beds, you just... fit.
Try it.
I think you'll feel much better.
You first.
You okay?
Yeah, I’m fine.
You won't save her.
You won't be the first to try
bringing someone back
from the Underworld.
You won’t be the first to fail.
Hey!
You're lucky we're letting you
keep your head, dummy.
Don't push it.
Is it over?
Are we sure this is the right way?
It’s either the realm of the dead,
or someone left a carton of milk
in there in the 1990s.
Better?
Much.
If we get into trouble...
...these are our tickets out.
No one's turning back
till we all come back.
No one comes back.
Dude! Don't make me come back out there.
We have no idea what's down there.
I just think it's safer
if I'm not holding them all.
Let's go get your mom.
Well, we're not in Kansas anymore.
What?
I never show you that movie?
Ah.
I meant, we are only an hour
from the city
and it feels like
we're on a different planet.
- It’s so... peaceful.
- I'm not going.
We discussed this.
This is gonna be really good for you.
Dr. Higgins says this is the best school,
the best program in the state
for kids with learning differences, okay?
- We were very lucky to get in.
- I'm not going.
Percy, I know
that you do not want to do this,
but sometimes I have to make choices
that you may not understand.
I'm not going!
Percy!
This is not a negotiation.
The only question is
how ugly you are gonna make it
before we say goodbye.
Now, open the door.
Fine!
Grover, hurry up.
Not in Kansas.
Hey, focus.
We left Kansas four days ago.
Yeah. No, it's a...
Never mind.
Guys, is that who I think it is?
Charon, the boatman,
taking new arrivals across the River Styx.
Which means that over there
is the main gate.
- Let's go. Maybe we can get there first.
- Yeah.
Why don't you let me
hang on to that for now?
Come on.
Excuse me. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry.
I'm sorry. Sorry.
Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me.
We're with them, up there.
Behind you. Sorry.
- This seems so wrong.
- Nah.
Only suckers wait in line.
Just--
You know, you should really
spend some time in the city with me.
I think you’d learn a lot.
You're not dead.
I mean...
we're all dying...
to some extent.
And you didn't pay to cross.
Wait! We-- we can pay! We can pay!
Here. Drachmas.
Just take... take, uh...
Just, you know, take them all.
You can buy a new whistle.
Go, go!
Grover!
Percy, that way!
You... are a bad... bad dog!
Guys! I can't hold this forever.
Can you fly us up there with your shoes?
You can do this.
One at a time. Take Percy first.
Maia.
Annabeth!
Guys?
Excuse me.
Wow.
That was really...
I mean, how did you...
My father had a dog when I was little.
I guess I remember the tricks.
Oh, wow.
Look at that.
Hades's palace.
That's where he'll be keeping
the master bolt.
And your mom.
Oh, no.
What?
My pearl. I lost the pearl.
I think it's...
It's in the dog.
- What are we gonna do?
- I don't know.
But if we don't move,
it is not gonna matter.
Come on.
No. No. No, no, no, no.
He is registered. I have the email
from your office right here,
- saying that he's registered.
- I'm very sorry.
But some new information came to light
that has forced us
to reconsider your application.
What kind of information?
A drawing.
- Oh, come on.
- A drawing that--
It wasn’t a disciplinary issue.
A drawing that caused
his previous school counselor
to reach out to me personally
to express his concern.
He drew a picture of a horse with wings.
It isn't just the drawing.
Our problem is that he was found
walking across the roof of the gymnasium,
after which he said
he saw something out there.
We aren’t equipped to offer
the kind of psychological monitoring
we believe your child will require here.
I have already withdrawn him
from his former school.
He has no place else to go.
Have you considered homeschool?
Homeschool?
I know.
It sounds overwhelming
but there are resources to help.
It's a real option.
Some children...
are better off being with their parent.
I'm sorry, but no.
I... I cannot accept that as an answer.
So let's you and I
figure out a way to make this work.
We can't ignore this.
- Stop.
- It's just math.
The three of us, plus your mom,
is four people,
and only three pearls.
Someone is staying behind
and it should really be me.
It wasn't your fault.
And even if it were,
you're not getting left behind.
Period.
After we get the bolt and stop this war,
you guys are leaving.
With my mom.
What about you?
Wait, wait, wait, Percy.
Quests aren't linear, right?
I'll figure something out--
Sorry.
They can't hear you.
"They"?
This must be Asphodel.
I read a book about this place.
Wait. No, no. No, no, no, no, no.
What are you...
Are those...
roots?
Souls here are bound by regret.
Haunted by choices they made in life...
...or never made.
Annabeth!
- Annabeth!
- Guys!
Annabeth?
- Annabeth!
We've got a problem here.
I already tried.
It's too strong.
How did this happen?
It's some kind of regret, right?
But what would you have to regret?
It's okay.
Go. I'll distract the dog
and buy you guys some time.
Percy!
This will work.
I’ll be okay.
I trust your dad.
You can do this.
I know you can.
Run.
Now!
She made it.
Let's go!
Weird.
Haven't heard the dog in a while.
He chased us all that way
and then just... stopped?
I wonder why.
That’s what I’m saying.
It’s weird.
Grover?
Grover, where are you going?
I don't-- I don't know. I-- I can't stop!
Percy! It's the shoes!
Grover!
Percy!
- Grover!
- Percy!
What was that?
- Is this--
- No.
I mean, it looks like--
It absolutely is not.
Okay.
So, what is it then?
- Yeah, that's the master bolt.
- I mean, I think so, right?
How is it in your bag?
Wait, this isn’t my bag.
This is the bag Ares gave me.
Ares had the master bolt this entire time
and tricked us.
He was working with Hades?
I guess so.
I mean...
that was it, right? That’s the quest.
Zeus is expecting us to return this.
Zeus is just gonna have to wait.
Let's go get your mom.
I know this is hard.
I hope you know that I know that.
But this school's gonna be
really good for you.
I know that, too.
Hey, listen...
if you really don't like it there...
we can look for other options. I mean it.
I just...
I want you to give this place a chance.
I gotta take you back to school soon
to drop you off, so let's not...
let's not spend the last few minutes
we have here like this.
Why are you doing this?
Why are you trying so hard
to get rid of me?
I would never do this to you.
I'm gonna go pay.
Is this our stop, or...?
Hey, fellas. Welcome!
Sorry about all the... Oh...
Anyways, it's great to meet you.
I know who you are, and you know who I am,
so we can just skip right past that part.
Can I get you anything?
Fresh pomegranate juice, a snack?
- Actually, if--
- My mother.
Boom.
Straight to business.
I admire the cut of your jib.
Little nautical reference for you.
I see you.
Where is she?
Right. Okey-doke.
Let's get to it.
Your mom's just over here.
You've come all this way,
don't be shy.
Mom?
What did you do to her?
Uh...
Saved her life?
You know, typically,
getting crushed by a Minotaur
is a terminal diagnosis.
I snagged her for ya,
just in the "ta-da" nick of time,
so that you would come see me.
And here we are.
You give me what you got,
and I'm giving you what I got.
I...
I can't give it to you.
- Ah, see, there's a quid and a quo here.
- The bolt doesn't belong to you.
Your plan almost worked.
You and Ares managed to steal the bolt,
trick me into bringing it right down
and giving it to you.
But it's wrong, and I won't do it.
So all I can do is ask you
to do the right thing, too.
Please...
let my mom go.
Huh?
What?
Who-- who tricked Ares into doing what?
You’re in cahoots with Ares,
to secure the bolt.
I'm not in cahoots with Ares.
I seldom "cahoot."
The bolt is my brothers' drama,
I don’t want any part of it.
- You don’t want it?
- No.
Then what do you want?
My helm!
Your what?
My Helm of Darkness.
It went missing
just days before someone
used it to turn invisible
and steal the bolt.
I'd like it back now, please,
and then you get your mom back.
You really don't want the bolt?
Why would I want that?
To start a war between your brothers.
- Jealousy.
- I don't know if you noticed,
but it's all candy canes and rainbows
down here.
I'm managing just fine.
I don't really do jealous.
My brothers, on the other hand,
have the market cornered on jealous.
Family drama is why
I don't go up there anymore.
These grudges, they go on forever.
Super unhealthy.
Someone stole Zeus's bolt,
it wasn't me,
it must have been somebody who was--
Kronos.
Excuse me?
He's got the longest grudge of them all.
Zeus took Kronos's throne.
Who else has a bigger reason
to weaken Zeus and take his throne back?
Kronos is in a million pieces
- at the bottom of--
- Tartarus, where something
just tried to pull us into it
the moment the bolt appeared in our bag.
Tartarus...
where I've been hearing
a voice from in my dreams,
telling me it needs my help
to take down Olympus.
I assumed that was you,
but that voice I heard...
that definitely did not sound like you.
Ask me for sanctuary.
What?
If Kronos is somehow
planning to emerge from his exile,
and you were his first call...
you're not safe.
Ask me and I'll protect you.
You and your mother.
And the goat.
I'll throw him in, on the house.
This works out nicely for you
as it turns out.
All it'll cost you is the bolt.
I thought you didn’t want the bolt?
I don’t want the bolt.
Now, I need the bolt.
If war with Kronos is coming,
I’d like to be prepared.
Not messing around here, kid.
This only ends one way.
The only question
is how difficult you make it.
No.
Give me the bag.
Nice pearl.
I accept your offer.
- Great!
- Your first offer.
We're gonna go get your helm.
And when I get back,
you're gonna let my mom go.
- Okay. Hang on, kid.
- Grover, now!
Hold fast, Mom.
This isn't fair.
No.
It isn't.
And I am failing.
No, you're not.
I'm going to take him to camp.
Are you sure?
What other choice do I have?
He and I, living together in the city?
It's starting to attract attention
from your world.
A winged horse followed him to school.
It saw him, he saw it.
Sooner or later, it's not just gonna be
pretty things that are following him.
At camp, he will be safe.
- You don't want him at camp.
- No, no.
No, I don't.
Tell me why.
You don't want to hear why.
Probably not.
But you have no one to say it to...
and maybe
that's the most unfair part of it.
You say it...
and I will listen.
I want him to know who he is...
...before your family tries to tell him
who they want him to be.
He is better than that.
He has better things in him than that.
Then I think you have your answer.
He's going to go to school.
And he's gonna learn things
that you can't teach him there.
And it's gonna be hard
for the both of you.
It's gonna be torture for the both of you.
But he will be stronger for it
on the other side.
His mother raised him well.
Do you want to talk to him?
I know you shouldn't, but...
maybe just to hear his voice.
One day.
One day, when he's ready.
When he knows who he is...
and where he belongs.
And fate has revealed to him
his true path.
On that day...
...I'll be right by his side.
You have to be very careful.
You're more than a hero now.
You are a leader
in the eyes of your fellow half-bloods.
I'm here to see Zeus.
I don't have an appointment.